<pre>
  PEPE: 9
  Title: Consensus
  Authors: Sérgio Flores <sergio@phantasma.io>, Alex Paixão <alex@phantasma.io>
  Type: Standard
  Status: Active
  Created: 2018-11-2
</pre>

==Abstract==

This PEPE describes the consensus mechanism used by the Phantasma blockchain.

==Motivation==

A blockchain as a public distributed system where anyone can submit information has as requirement a pre-defined consensus mechanism that lets every participant agree in the appending of new data and respective ordering.

==Specification==

Phantasma uses a variation of Proof of Stake consensus mechanism, where a sub-set of nodes denominated "block producers" validate incoming transactions and reach a consensus on what to accept and reject.

===Block Producers===

====Election====
Phantasma allows any user to propose itself as a block producer by staking a pre-determined amount of SOUL.

====Spot Opening====
Phantasma chain automatically unlocks new block producer slots as certain transaction thresholds are reached.

====Voting====
New votes require using PEPE-15 to fill the new available block producer position.

====Defection====
Phantasma includes a on-chain slashing mechanism that allows any user to force defection of a block producer as long as proof of incompentence is submitted.
This mechanism uses PEPE-15 to decide on the result.

===Epochs===

The generation of new blocks is done over epoches, who can be defined as time slices where every epoch is attributed to a different block producer.
During an epoch, only the designated block producer is responsible for accepting new blocks.
Once the epoch terminates, it is validated by the next producer who can then distribute the fees back to the block producer.
While an epoch is running, it can be slashed at any time by other block producers, if either a invalid block is detected or the active block producer is unresponsive.
A slashing implies cancelation of active epoch and beginning of another with the next block producer. 
In case of invalid blocks detection a rollback of blocks is applied and the included transactions getting back to the memory pool.
The finality of the Phantasma chain is therefore determined by the length of an epoch. 

====Rewards====
Block producers receive tokens collected as fees as described in PEPE-16. To optimize the collection of fees, they are gathered for multiple epoches before getting distributed daily.

===Side-chains===
Each side-chain has a separated epoch occurring simultaneous, avoiding a side-chain to prevent others from advancing.