<pre>
  PEPE: 17
  Title: Energy Staking
  Authors: Sérgio Flores <sergio@phantasma.io>, Alex Paixão <alex@phantasma.io>
  Type: Standard
  Status: Active
  Created: 2018-11-2
</pre>

==Abstract==

This PEPE specifies the energy staking system employed in Phantasma blockchain.

==Motivation==

Having the users pay per transaction makes a blockchain quite expensive to use, however making the system full free to use opens the blockchain to spam attacks.
Phantasma employs a dual token approach where users can charge their account once with a staking token and then able to generate energy token from that, which is itself used as the transaction payment.
This system scales well for power users and large organizations who need more energy and can stake more tokens in order to produce more energy.

==Specification==

The Phantasma provides a native contract ABI that allows an issue to be proposed and then voted by users, until an outcome is decided.
The voting system calculates the voting power of each user by taking into account their staked token amount, modified by a quadratic function, in order to reduce the amount of power that can be exerted by groups owning a large stake.

==Proxy Distribution==

It can be useful to have a way for new users to use the system without any upfront cost. The energy staking system allows specifying proxy addresses who will be part of the distribution mechanism.
This allows for example a single user to stake tokens and generate energy for all his family or friends, who can then perform transactions without owning any staking tokens.
The proxy contracts also have permission to do the energy claiming themselves, which gives them enough autonomy to use the system without supervision from the stake owner.

==Contract ABI==

TODO 

==Implementation==

The .NET module "Phantasma.Blockchain" includes the EnergyContract class that implements the ABI described by this PEPE.
The Phantasma App implements a frontend for the voting system described in this PEPE.

TODO more info

